Update 04.restack.md (#482)
kestra-io/docs: content/docs/09.administrator-guide/02.deployment/04.restack.md

---

> title: Deployment on your AWS, GCP or Azure with Restack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deploy to AWS, GCP or Azure with Restack
```

---

> [Restack](https://restack.io) provides the tools and infrastructure to build and deploy open-source products in your cloud without DevOps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Restack](https://restack.io) provides the tools to deploy open-source products to your cloud without requiring DevOps resources.
```

It is a little confusing to say: it provides infrastructure and then "deploy to your Cloud"

## Getting Started

To deploy Kestra with Restack:

>   - [Sign up for a Restack account](#sign-up-for-a-restack-account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Sign up for a Restack account](#sign-up-for-a-restack-account)
```

>   - [Connect your AWS](#connect-your-aws-account).
>   - [Connect your GCP](#connect-your-gcp-account).
>   - [Connect your Azure](#connect-your-azure-account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Connect your AWS account](#connect-your-aws-account)
  - [Connect your GCP  account](#connect-your-gcp-account)
  - [Connect your Azure account](#connect-your-azure-account)
```

>   - [One-click cluster creation with Restack](#one-click-cluster-creation-with-restack).
>   - [Deploy Kestra on Restack](#deploy-kestra-on-restack).
>   - [Start using Kestra](#start-using-kestra).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [One-click cluster creation with Restack](#one-click-cluster-creation-with-restack)
  - [Deploy Kestra on Restack](#deploy-kestra-on-restack)
  - [Start using Kestra](#start-using-kestra)
```

>   - [Deploy your own Kestra image](#deploy-your-kestra-image).
>   - [Manage secrets and environment variables](#manage-secrets-and-environment-variables).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Deploy your own Kestra image](#deploy-your-kestra-image)
  - [Manage secrets and environment variables](#manage-secrets-and-environment-variables).

```

## Sign up for a Restack account

> To Sign up for a Restack account, visit [www.restack.io/signup](https://www.restack.io/signup). You can sign up with your corporate email address or your GitHub profile. You do not need a credit card to sign up.
> ![restack-signup](/docs/administrator-guide/deployment/restack/restack-sign-up.png)
> If you already have an account, login to Restack at [www.restack.io/login](https://www.restack.io/login).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Restack account, visit [www.restack.io/signup](https://www.restack.io/signup). You can sign up for free _(no credit card required)_ using your company's email address or your GitHub account. 

![restack-signup](/docs/administrator-guide/deployment/restack/restack-sign-up.png)

If you already have an account, login to Restack at [www.restack.io/login](https://www.restack.io/login).
```

## Connect your AWS account

> Log into Restack Console and navigate to Settings > Cloud > Connect Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log into Restack Console and navigate to Settings > Cloud > Connect Cloud:

```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/4c3c9385fd468fd49fcade0b405f089e14303bba-4320x2280.png)

> Create an IAM Role by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create an IAM Role by following the following steps:
```

> 1. Log into your AWS Management Console as a user with administrator privileges and go to the IAM console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log into your AWS Management Console as a user with administrator privileges and go to the IAM section.
```

2. Click the Roles tab and click on Create Role in the IAM sidebar.

 ![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/7d1ba16ba5610e8947ca20d8746ee8424a9d4621-2000x1062.png)

> 3. In Select type of trusted entity, click the Custom trust policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the "Select type of trusted entity" section, select the "Custom trust policy" option
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/666cb5015b3c5a29e6eef6216bdd97ef67297dc8-1770x1110.png)

> 4. Copy and Paste into the custom policy field the following. You also can copy it directly from the Restack user interface modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy and paste the following JSON policy into the custom policy field (_you also can copy the same policy from the Restack UI_):
```

```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::223746943638:user/connect",
                    "arn:aws:iam::223746943638:role/connect"
                ]
            },
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Condition": {
                "StringEquals": {
                    "sts:ExternalId": "restack"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
  }
```

> 5. Click the Next button and Add AdministratorAccess Permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click the "Next" button and under the "Add permissions" section, add the `AdministratorAccess` policy.
```

out of curiosity, why Admin access is required?

Author: Admin access is the default one for companies that want a fully managed solution (the majority). Thanks to that we can provision and manage all services needed to run the products without the customer updating permissions every time we need to manage a new one. 
For enteprise customers that want more restrictive permissions, they should contact us and we will offer a more restricted version that they will need to update. We should probably add that to the documentation. I will send a commit with my suggested changes.

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/2685ee99b153f46b38f99607407dfba72c5c6522-2000x1160.png)

> 6. Click the Next button and Add Role Name `restack`, Review, and Create button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the "Next" button and type `restack` in the "Role name" field. Then, review the IAM role and click on the "Create role" button.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/fb14345d290077195b986cb3931c0d39689dca6f-2000x1255.png)

> 7. From IAM > Role overview, navigate to the role you just created and copy the ARN from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. From the IAM > Roles overview, navigate to the role you've just created and copy its ARN.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/e3750c4fb52873a781e328e81c70237d1968d5da-2560x1440.png)

> 8. Copy the ARN to Restack's user interface and check by clicking on 'Connect cloud' if Restack can successfully assume the role in your AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Paste the Role ARN to Restack's user interface and validate the setup by clicking on the 'Connect cloud' button. This will validate if Restack can successfully assume the role in your AWS account.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/ef820e88fd8cd5bd64ca24b79f22bc96cf9fd255-2560x1440.png)

> If the cloud account was added successfully and Restack can connect to it, you can proceed to create a cluster and provision applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the AWS cloud account has been successfully added and Restack can connect to it, you can proceed to create a cluster and provision your Kestra instance.
```

> `sts:AssumeRole` is an AWS Security Token Service (STS) API operation that allows an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user or role in one account to assume a role in another AWS account. This allows the user or role to access resources in the second account that they would not normally have access to.
> 
> The `sts:AssumeRole` operation returns a set of temporary security credentials that the user or role can use to access resources in the second account. These credentials include an access key, a secret access key, and a session token, which can be used to make AWS API requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How can restack assume the IAM role created in your account?**

- The `sts:AssumeRole` is an AWS Security Token Service (STS) API operation that allows an IAM user or role in one account to assume a role in another AWS account. This allows the user or role to access resources in the second account that they would not normally have access to.

- The `sts:AssumeRole` operation returns a set of temporary security credentials that the user or role can use to access resources in the second account. These credentials include an access key, a secret access key, and a session token, which can be used to make AWS API requests.
```

> ## Connect your GCP account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Connect your GCP account
```

this is purely to get a nicer display :)

> Connect your GCP account in a few steps to Restack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can connect your GCP account to Restack in just a few steps. 

```

> > Requirements
> - Active Google Cloud Organization
> - Active Google project for all Restack related resources
> - Active billing profile associated with the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, make sure that the following requirements are satisfied:

1. You have an active Google Cloud account or organization
2. You have an active project that can be used to deploy resources from Restack
3. You have an active billing profile associated with that project
```

I'm assuming that both a Google Cloud account AND an organization will work? Or does it only work if you have an organization on GCP? It is worth cross-checking as we have users who would like to deploy Kestra with Restack to their private GCP account without having an organization on GCP

> 1. Create a new service account in your Google project, you created to connect with Restack

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Create a new service account in your Google project. This service account will be used to manage permissions to deploy resources with Restack.
```

**How can restack assume the IAM role created in your account?**

- The `sts:AssumeRole` is an AWS Security Token Service (STS) API operation that allows an IAM user or role in one account to assume a role in another AWS account. This allows the user or role to access resources in the second account that they would not normally have access to.

- The `sts:AssumeRole` operation returns a set of temporary security credentials that the user or role can use to access resources in the second account. These credentials include an access key, a secret access key, and a session token, which can be used to make AWS API requests.

## Connect your GCP account

Connect your GCP account in a few steps to Restack.

> Requirements
- Active Google Cloud Organization
- Active Google project for all Restack related resources
- Active billing profile associated with the project

1. Create a new service account in your Google project, you created to connect with Restack

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/43f688c517cfca2c2e430d17d0069ed3fb74b2e8-6016x3384.png)

> 2. Copy connect@restackio.iam.gserviceaccount.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

cut

> 3. Navigate to https://console.cloud.google.com/ and to your project-id
> 
> 4. Go to IAM & Admin > Service Accounts
> 
> Create a new service account in your project
> Service account name: `restack`
> Service account ID: `restack`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

cut as this one conflicting with step 1 which already creates the account?

Author: Thanks, I will commit and add clarify in the point 1. that the servcie account and ID should be `restack`

5. Grant this service account access to the project with Owner role

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/e30384b7512b54dd7770562d3ab5c10c05eecf6c-6016x3384.png)

6. Grant connect@restackio.iam.gserviceaccount.com access as user to this service account with the following permissions:

- `Service Account Token Creator`

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/4d051eea7ecfd580fd1d5d3f730cebb238e17f3f-6016x3384.png)

> 7. Click on ‘Done’ to finish the creation of the service account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Finally, click on "Save" and "Done" to finish the service account creation process.
```

> 8. Add your project id and the email of your service account to Restack's user interface to add your cloud and test to connect successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add your GCP project ID and the email of your service account to Restack's user interface in order to add your GCP cloud account and validate the connectivity established via the service account.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/bfc406eb19cd1c67245fbd8d7c8e84ceafc7e020-1176x1920.png)

> ## Connect your Azure account

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Connect your Azure account
```

Connect your Azure account in a few steps to Restack.

> Requirements
- Active Azure account
- Active Azure subscription
- Active Azure user with "Owner" role

> 1. Create a new App Registration in your Azure Active Directory to connect with Restack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Follow these steps to create a new Azure App Registration in order to authenticate your Azure account with Restack and deploy Azure resources from Restack.

1. Create a new App Registration in your Azure Active Directory 
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/cb0e76db65825a3d097b764735e6de29d68195ff-2590x1728.png?w=450)

4. For your newly created App Registration, add an API Permission called "user_impersonation".

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/d3c38be874bce1bfe63c60a1bd6a2da75b77cce5-3024x1648.png)

5. For your App Registration, go to "Certificates & secrets" and create a new client secret. Copy the value of the secret and paste it in Restack UI as the Client Secret.

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/2cc097fd4e153bab779de038f153a83bb2a38c59-3024x1648.png)

6. Go to your "Subscriptions", and choose the subscription you want to use for Restack. In the "Access Control (IAM)" section, access "Role assignments" and add a new role assignment. Choose the "Owner" role (Privileged administrator roles) & Azure Kubernetes Service RBAC Cluster Admin (Job function roles) and click "Next".

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/6451cf86e77b7fb886d63578734858fe00c8f149-3024x1650.png)
![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/1121d4525b7659406f38ddcab0e745ff1d84cb1f-3024x1650.png)

> 7. Choose "User, group or service principal" in "Assign access to" and click on "Select members". In the opened search bar type in "restack". The "restack" App Registration you've created should pop up. Select it and click on "Next". Lastly click on "Review + assign". Now in "Role assignments" section you should see the "restack" app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Choose "User, group or service principal" in "Assign access to" and click on "Select members". In the opened search bar, type in "restack". The "restack" App Registration you've created should pop up. Select it and click on "Next". Lastly, click on "Review + assign". Now in the "Role assignments" section, you should see the "restack" app.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/3a8e74393fc5b3ee3b0598ef69475b9e4d738891-3024x1650.png)

> 8. Go to "Subscriptions" and copy the Subscription ID to paste in Restack UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Go to "Subscriptions", copy the Subscription ID, and paste it in the Restack UI.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/dfaefa1f878e41dce37339de365cb6e32c88ea9d-2564x1726.png)

9. Click on "Connect cloud". 

> If the cloud account was added successfully and Restack can connect to it, you can proceed to create a cluster and provision applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the cloud account has been successfully added and Restack can connect to it, you can proceed to create a cluster and provision your Kestra instance.
```

> ## One-click cluster creation with Restack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## One-click cluster creation with Restack
```

> 1. Navigate to the **Clusters** tab on the same page and click on **Create cluster**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Clusters** tab and click on **Create cluster**.
```

Given that the previous setup was separate per cloud, it's unclear what the same page means so worth cutting or clarifying.

    ![create-cluster](/docs/administrator-guide/deployment/restack/restack-create-cluster.png)
2. Give a name to your cluster.
3. Select the region you want to deploy the cluster in.

> The cluster creation process will start automatically. Once the cluster is ready, you will get an email on the email id connected with your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster creation process will start automatically. Once the cluster is ready, you will receive an email with the confirmation.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/e30384b7512b54dd7770562d3ab5c10c05eecf6c-6016x3384.png)

6. Grant connect@restackio.iam.gserviceaccount.com access as user to this service account with the following permissions:

- `Service Account Token Creator`

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/4d051eea7ecfd580fd1d5d3f730cebb238e17f3f-6016x3384.png)

7. Click on ‘Done’ to finish the creation of the service account

8. Add your project id and the email of your service account to Restack's user interface to add your cloud and test to connect successfully.

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/bfc406eb19cd1c67245fbd8d7c8e84ceafc7e020-1176x1920.png)

## Connect your Azure account

Connect your Azure account in a few steps to Restack.

> Requirements
- Active Azure account
- Active Azure subscription
- Active Azure user with "Owner" role

1. Create a new App Registration in your Azure Active Directory to connect with Restack.

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/6b355dd2401ab94754258f4fe12ff51c52c6f0bc-3020x1652.png)

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/dc0fa6c05a65e60d9ff7c323b25b5ea116e4e7e1-3024x1650.png)

> 2. Copy the Application (client) ID and paste in Restack UI as the Client ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the Application (client) ID and paste it into the Restack UI setup as the Client ID.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/392b15df09de170e1bb7632880f42ff093852853-2564x1730.png)

> 3. Copy the Directory (tenant) ID and paste in Restack UI as the Tenant ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Copy the Directory (tenant) ID and paste it in Restack UI as the Tenant ID.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/cb0e76db65825a3d097b764735e6de29d68195ff-2590x1728.png?w=450)

> 4. For you newly created App Registration add an API Permission called "user_impersonation".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. For your newly created App Registration, add an API Permission called "user_impersonation".
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/d3c38be874bce1bfe63c60a1bd6a2da75b77cce5-3024x1648.png)

> 5. For your App Registration go to "Certificates & secrets" and create a new client secret. Copy the value of the secret and paste in Restack UI as the Client Secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. For your App Registration, go to "Certificates & secrets" and create a new client secret. Copy the value of the secret and paste it in Restack UI as the Client Secret.
```

![](https://cdn.sanity.io/images/ev3amoz3/production/2cc097fd4e153bab779de038f153a83bb2a38c59-3024x1648.png)

> 6. Go to your "Subscriptions", choose the subscription you want to use for Restack. In "Access Control (IAM)" section access "Role assignments" and add a new role assignment. Choose the "Owner" role (Privileged administrator roles) & Azure Kubernetes Service RBAC Cluster Admin (Job function roles) and click "Next".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Go to your "Subscriptions", and choose the subscription you want to use for Restack. In the "Access Control (IAM)" section, access "Role assignments" and add a new role assignment. Choose the "Owner" role (Privileged administrator roles) & Azure Kubernetes Service RBAC Cluster Admin (Job function roles) and click "Next".
```

Kestra will be deployed on your cluster and you can access it using the link under the *URL* tab.
![lightdash-deployed](/docs/administrator-guide/deployment/restack/kestra-deployed.png)

> ## Deploy your Kestra image

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Deploy your Kestra image

```

> Activate **Restack CI/CD previews** under Stack > Settings to deploy your own Airflow image by connecting your GitHub repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activate **Restack CI/CD previews** under Stack > Settings to deploy a custom Kestra image by connecting your GitHub repository.
```

lol

> With CI/CD preview activated, every time you make a pull request to your GitHub repo, Restack takes every file and deploy them into your cloud. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With CI/CD preview activated, every time you make a pull request to your GitHub repo, Restack takes every file and deploys them to your cloud. 
```

> For every pull request, Restack provides you a URL with a preview environment for you to review. Once that you merge your pull request into main, Restack flushes the preview environments, and builds the repo into your production environment.
> 
> Here you can find the ![Kestra starter repo](https://github.com/restackio/starter-kestra).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every pull request, Restack provides you with a URL with a preview environment, allowing you to review the pull request. Once you merge your pull request, Restack flushes the preview environments and builds the deployed code from the repository into your production environment.

The following [Kestra Restack repository](https://github.com/restackio/starter-kestra) can help you get started.
```

cut `main` as I assume people can customize the branch name, WDYT? or is it always main?

> ## Manage secrets and environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Manage secrets and environment variables

```

You can edit Kestra secrets and environment variables directly in the Restack UI.

> On the Restack UI, click on `Stacks`, then on your application, and then on `Settings`. There, you will be able to add/edit or delete your secrets and environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Restack UI, click on `Stacks`, then on your application, and then on `Settings`. From there, you will be able to add, modify, or delete your secrets and environment variables.
```

When adding a new environment variable, consider the following:

> - First, add an environment key and value in lowercase with no hyphens or underscores in the Restack UI. Example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, add an environment key and value in lowercase with no hyphens or underscores in the Restack UI. Here is an example: 
```

```
Key: openai
Value: my openai key
```

> - Then, in the Kestra UI Flow, you can use globals to get the value. Following the previous example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in the Kestra Flow, you can use globals to get the value. Following the previous example, you can use the following syntax:
```

```

> {{globals..openai}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ globals.openai }}
```

```

> Check the Ketra documentation about environment variables [here](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/variables#environment-variables)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about global environment variables, check the following [documentation page](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/variables#environment-variables).
```
